{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;
\f3\ftech\fcharset2 Symbol;\f4\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title Gaddis \'d0 Starting Out With Java 5 \'d0 From Control Structures to Objects}
{\author George McOuat}
{\*\company Paliku International}}\vieww9200\viewh8100\viewkind1\viewscale100
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Gaddis \'d0 Starting Out With Java 5 \'d0 From Control Structures to Objects\
Chapter 04 \'d0 Loops and Files\
\
Multiple Choice
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs22 \cf0 1. What will be the values of x and y as a result of the following code?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 25, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 8;\
x 
\f3 += 
\f2 y
\f3 ++
\f2 ;\
a.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 25, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 8\
b.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 33, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 8\
c.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 33, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 9\
d.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 34, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 9\
\
ANS: C\
\
2. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 4, z 
\f3 = 
\f2 6;\
x 
\f3 = 
\f2 (y
\f3 ++
\f2 ) * (
\f3 ++
\f2 z);\
a.	24\
b.	28\
c.	30\
d.	35\
\
ANS: B\
\
3. If a loop does not contain within itself a way to terminate, it is called\
a.	A while loop\
b.	A do-while loop\
c.	A for loop\
d.	An infinite loop\
\
ANS: D\
\
4. A(n) ____ will always be executed at least once.\
a.	Pre-test loop\
b.	Post-test loop\
c.	Sentinel loop\
d.	for loop\
\
ANS: B\
\
5. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10;\
while (x 
\f3 < 
\f2 100)\
\{\
	x 
\f3 += 
\f2 10;\
\}\
a.	90\
b.	100\
c.	110\
d.	This is an infinite loop\
\
ANS: B\
\
6. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 20;\
while (y 
\f3 < 
\f2 100)\
\{\
	x 
\f3 += 
\f2 y;\
\}\
a.	90\
b.	110\
c.	210\
d.	This is an infinite loop\
\
ANS: D\
\
7. What values for number could you enter to terminate the following while loop?\
System.out.print(\'d2Enter a number: \'d3);\
int number 
\f3 = 
\f2 Keyboard.nextInt();\
while (number 
\f3 < 
\f2 100 && number 
\f3 > 
\f2 500)\
\{\
	System.out.print(\'d2Enter another number: \'d3);\
	number 
\f3 = 
\f2 Keyboard.nextInt();\
\}\
a.	Numbers less than 100 or greater than 500\
b.	Numbers in the range 100\'d0499\
c.	Numbers in the range 100\'d0500\
d.	The boolean condition can never be true\
\
ANS: D\
\
8. The do-while loop is a pre-test loop.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: B\
\
9. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10;\
do\
\{\
	x *
\f3 = 
\f2 20;\
\}\
while (x 
\f3 > 
\f2 5);\
a.	10\
b.	200\
c.	This is an infinite loop.\
d.	The loop will not be executed, the initial value of x 
\f3 > 
\f2 5.\
\
ANS: C\
\
10. How many times will the following do-while loop be executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 11;\
do\
\{\
	x 
\f3 += 
\f2 20;\
\}\
while (x 
\f3 > 
\f2 100);\
a.	0\
b.	1\
c.	4\
d.	5\
\
ANS: B\
\
11. A loop that repeats a specific number of times is known as a(n) _____.\
a.	Sentinel loop\
b.	Conditional loop\
c.	Counter-controlled loop\
d.	Infinite loop\
\
ANS: C\
\
12. How many times will the following for loop be executed?\
for (int count 
\f3 = 
\f2 10; count 
\f3 <= 
\f2 21; count
\f3 ++
\f2 )\
	System.out.println(\'d2Java is great!!!\'d3);\
a.	10\
b.	11\
c.	12\
d.	0\
\
ANS: C\
\
13. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10;\
for (int y 
\f3 = 
\f2 5; y 
\f3 < 
\f2 20; y 
\f3 +=
\f2 5)\
	x 
\f3 += 
\f2 y;\
a.	40\
b.	25\
c.	30\
d.	Invalid for statement\
\
ANS: A\
\
14. In the for loop, the control variable cannot be initialized to a constant value and tested\
against a constant value.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: B\
\
15. A(n) ____ is a value that signals when the end of a list of values has been reached.\
a.	Terminal value\
b.	Final value\
c.	End value\
d.	Sentinel\
\
ANS: D\
\
16. Before entering a loop to compute a running total, the program should first\
a.	Read all the values into main memory\
b.	Set the accumulator where the total will be kept to an initial value, usually zero\
c.	Know exactly how many values there are to total\
d.	Set all variables to zero\
\
ANS: B\
\
17. When the break statement is encountered in a loop, all the statements in the body of the loop that appear after it are ignored, and the loop prepares for the next iteration.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: B\
\
18. The _____ is ideal in situations where the exact number of iterations is known.\
a.	while loop\
b.	do-while loop\
c.	for loop\
d.	if statement\
\
ANS: C\
\
19. The PrintWriter class allows you to open a file for writing and establish a connection\
with it.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: B\
\
20. Given the following two statements, which statement below will write to a file?\
FileWriter fdisk 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(\'d2DiskFile.txt\'d3);\
PrintWriter diskOut 
\f3 = 
\f2 new PrintWriter(fdisk)\
a.	fdisk.println(\'d2Calvin\'d3);\
b.	DiskFile.println(\'d2Calvin\'d3);\
c.	PrintWriter.println(\'d2Calvin\'d3);\
d.	diskOut
\f4\fs24 .println
\f2\fs22  (\'d2Calvin\'d3);\
\
ANS: D\
\
21. When an object in your program is capable of throwing an exception, you must either write code that deals with the possible exceptions, or ___.\
a.	There is no \'d2or\'d3, you must write the code to deal with the exception.\
b.	Allow your methods to rethrow the exceptions when they occur.\
c.	Nothing\'d1there is no such thing as an exception in programming.\
d.	Use an if statement to avoid such exceptions\
\
ANS: B\
\
22. When working with files, you should have the following import statement near the top of your program:\
a.	import javax.swing.*;\
b.	import java.io.*;\
c.	import javac.io.*;\
d.	import java.file.*;\
\
ANS: B\
\
23. Which of the following will open a file and allow you to append data to its existing contents?\
a.	FileWriter fwriter 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(\'d2MyFile.txt\'d3, true);\
b.	FileWriter fwriter 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(\'d2MyFile.txt\'d3);\
c.	PrintWriter outfile 
\f3 = 
\f2 new PrintWriter(fwriter, true);\
d.	PrintWriter outfile 
\f3 = 
\f2 new PrintWriter(fwriter);\
\
ANS: A\
\
24. When reading a line from a file into the variable str, use the following while statement to check for end of file:\
a.	while (str 
\f3 == 
\f2 null)\
b.	while (!EOF)\
c.	while (str !
\f3 = 
\f2 null)\
d.	while (str !
\f3 = 
\f2 \'d2 \'d3)\
\
ANS: C\
\
25. Which of the following methods will not convert a string to a number:\
a.	Integer.parseInteger(str)\
b.	Double.parseDouble(str)\
c.	Integer.parseInt(str)\
d.	Each will convert a string to a number\
\
ANS: A\
\
26. What will be the values of x and y as a result of the following code?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 12, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 5;\
x 
\f3 += 
\f2 y\'d0 \'d0;\
a.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 12, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 5\
b.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 16, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 4\
c.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 17, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 5\
d.	x 
\f3 = 
\f2 17, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 4\
\
ANS: D\
\
27. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 15, z 
\f3 = 
\f2 3;\
x 
\f3 = 
\f2 (y\'d0 \'d0) / (
\f3 ++
\f2 z);\
a.	3\
b.	4\
c.	5\
d.	6\
\
ANS: A\
\
28. In all but rare cases, loops must contain within themselves\
a.	Arithmetic statements\
b.	if statements\
c.	A way to terminate\
d.	Nested loops\
\
ANS: C\
\
29. Which of the following are pre-test loops:\
a.	while, for, do-while\
b.	while, do-while\
c.	while, for\
d.	for, do-while\
\
ANS: C\
\
30. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10;\
while (x 
\f3 < 
\f2 100);\
\{\
x 
\f3 += 
\f2 10;\
\}\
a.	90\
b.	100\
c.	110\
d.	This is an infinite loop\
\
ANS: B\
\
31. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10, y 
\f3 = 
\f2 20;\
while (y 
\f3 < 
\f2 100)\
\{\
x 
\f3 += 
\f2 y;\
y 
\f3 += 
\f2 20;\
\}\
a.	90\
b.	110\
c.	130\
d.	210\
\
ANS: D\
\
32. What values for number could you enter to terminate the following while loop?\
System.out.print(\'d2Enter a number: \'d3);\
int number 
\f3 = 
\f2 Keyboard.nextInt();\
while (number 
\f3 < 
\f2 100 || number 
\f3 > 
\f2 500)\
\{\
	System.out.print(\'d2Enter another number: \'d3);\
	number 
\f3 = 
\f2 Keyboard.nextInt();\
\}\
a.	Numbers less than 100\
b.	Numbers greater than 500\
c.	Numbers in the range 99\'d0501\
d.	Numbers in the range 100\'d0500\
\
ANS: D\
\
33. The do-while loop must be terminated with a semicolon.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: A\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs18 \cf0 3
\fs22 4. What will be the value of x after the following code is executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 10;\
do\
\{\
	x *
\f3 = 
\f2 20;\
\}\
while (x 
\f3 < 
\f2 5);\
a.	10\
b.	200\
c.	This is an infinite loop.\
d.	The loop will not be executed, the initial value of x 
\f3 > 
\f2 5.\
\
ANS: B\
\
35. How many times will the following do-while loop be executed?\
int x 
\f3 = 
\f2 11;\
do\
\{\
	x 
\f3 += 
\f2 20;\
\}\
while (x 
\f3 <= 
\f2 100);\
a.	1\
b.	3\
c.	4\
d.	5\
\
ANS: D\
\
36. A loop that executes as long as a particular condition exists is called a(n) _____.\
a.	Sentinel loop\
b.	Conditional loop\
c.	Count-controlled loop\
d.	Infinite loop\
\
ANS: B\
\
37. A for loop must possess which of the following elements\
a.	Initialize a control variable to a starting value\
b.	Test the control variable by comparing it to a maximum/minimum value and terminate when the variable reaches that value\
c.	Update the control variable during each iteration\
d.	All of the above\
e.	None of the above\
\
ANS: D\
\
38. What will be printed after the following code is executed?\
for (int number 
\f3 = 
\f2 5; number 
\f3 <= 
\f2 15; number 
\f3 +=
\f2 3)\
	system.out.print(number 
\f3 + 
\f2 \'d2, \'d3);\
a.	5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15\
b.	5, 8, 11, 14, 17\
c.	5, 8, 11, 14\
d.	This is an invalid for statement\
\
ANS: C\
\
39. In a for statement, the control variable can only be incremented.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: B\
\
40. A(n) ____ is a sum of numbers that accumulates with each iteration of a loop.\
a.	Running total\
b.	Final total\
c.	Grand total\
d.	Galloping total\
\
ANS: A\
\
41. A sentinel value is a value that ____ and signals that there are no more values to be entered.\
a.	Is a different data type than the values being processed\
b.	Is a special value that cannot be mistaken as a member of the list\
c.	Indicates the start of a list\
d.	Guards the list\
\
ANS: B\
\
42. When the continue statement is encountered in a loop, all the statements in the body of the loop that appear after it are ignored, and the loop prepares for the next iteration.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: A\
\
43. The _____ is ideal in situations where you always want the loop to iterate at least once.\
a.	while loop\
b.	do-while loop\
c.	for loop\
d.	if statement\
\
ANS: B\
\
44. A file must always be opened before using it and closed when the program is finished using it.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: A\
\
45. What does the following code do?\
System.out.print(\'d2Enter the filename: \'d3);\
filename 
\f3 = 
\f2 Keyboard.readString();\
FileWriter fwriter 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(filename);\
a.	It establishes a connection with a file called filename\
b.	It writes to a file called filename\
c.	It allows the user of the program to enter the file name of the file he/she wants to write to\
d.	Nothing, there is a syntax error\
\
ANS: C\
\
46. A(n) _____ is an item that separates other items.\
a.	Separator\
b.	Partition\
c.	Doorway\
d.	Delimiter\
\
ANS: D\
\
47. Any method that calls a method that uses a FileWriter or PrintWriter object should have a throws IOException clause in its header.\
a.	True\
b.	False\
\
ANS: A\
\
48. Which of the following will open a file and allow you to append data to its existing contents?\
a.	PrintWriter outfile 
\f3 = 
\f2 new PrintWriter(fwriter, true);\
b.	PrintWriter outfile 
\f3 = 
\f2 new PrintWriter(fwriter);\
c.	FileWriter fwriter 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(\'d2MyFile.txt\'d3, true);\
d.	FileWriter fwriter 
\f3 = 
\f2 new FileWriter(\'d2MyFile.txt\'d3);\
\
ANS: C\
\
49. In the following code, what is the purpose of the while statement?\
String str 
\f3 = 
\f2 inputFile.readLine();\
while ( str !
\f3 = 
\f2 null )\
\{\'c9\
\}\
a.	To check for end of file\
b.	To check for spaces at the first of the input record\
c.	To loop if the a null character was read\
d.	There is no purpose, this code is not needed\
\
ANS: A\
\
50. Which of the following will not convert a string to a number?\
a.	Double.parseDouble(str)\
b.	Integer.parseInt(str)\
c.	Int.parseInt(str)\
d.	They will each parse a string into a number\
\
ANS: C\
}